Incorporate Results Feedback (#97)
tidy-survey-r/tidy-survey-book: 08-communicating-results.Rmd

## Introduction

> After finishing the analysis and modeling, we then proceed to the important task of communicating the survey results. Our audience may range from seasoned researchers familiar with our survey data to newcomers encountering the information for the first time. We should aim to explain the methodology and analysis while presenting findings in an accessible way, and it is our responsibility to report information with care.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After finishing the analysis and modeling, we proceed to the important task of communicating the survey results. Our audience may range from seasoned researchers familiar with our survey data to newcomers encountering the information for the first time. We should aim to explain the methodology and analysis while presenting findings in an accessible way, and it is our responsibility to report information with care.
```

  - What are we trying to communicate? It could be summary statistics, trends, patterns, or other insights. Tables might suit summary statistics, while plots are better at conveying trends and patterns.
  - Is the audience accustomed to interpreting plots? If not, include explanatory text to guide them on how to interpret the plots effectively.
  - What is the audience's statistical knowledge? If the audience does not have a strong statistics background, provide text on standard errors, confidence intervals, and other estimate types to enhance understanding.

## Describing results through text

As analysts, our emphasis is often on the data, and communicating results can sometimes be overlooked. First, we need to identify the appropriate information to share with our audience. Chapters \@ref(c02-overview-surveys) and \@ref(c03-understanding-survey-data-documentation) provide insights into factors we need to consider during analysis, and they remain relevant when presenting results to others.

### Methodology

> If we are using existing data, methodologically-sound surveys will provide documentation about how the survey was fielded, the questionnaires, and other necessary information for analyses. For example, the survey's methodology reports should include the population of interest, sampling procedures, response rates, questionnaire documentation, weighting, and a general overview of disclosure statements. Many American organizations follow the American Association for Public Opinion Research's (AAPOR) [Transparency Initiative](https://aapor.org/standards-and-ethics/transparency-initiative). The AAPOR Transparency Initiative require organizations to include specific details in their methodology, making it clear how we can and should analyze the results. Being transparent about these methods is vital for the scientific rigor of the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we are using existing data, methodologically-sound surveys will provide documentation about how the survey was fielded, the questionnaires, and other necessary information for analyses. For example, the survey's methodology reports should include the population of interest, sampling procedures, response rates, questionnaire documentation, weighting, and a general overview of disclosure statements. Many American organizations follow the American Association for Public Opinion Research's (AAPOR) [Transparency Initiative](https://aapor.org/standards-and-ethics/transparency-initiative). The AAPOR Transparency Initiative requires organizations to include specific details in their methodology, making it clear how we can and should analyze the results. Being transparent about these methods is vital for the scientific rigor of the field.
```

> The details provided in Chapter \@ref(c02-overview-surveys) about for researchers should be shared with the audience when presenting the results. When using publicly-available data, like the examples in this book, we can often link to the methodology report in our final output. We should also provide high-level information for the audience to quickly grasp the context around the findings. For example, we can mention when and where the study was conducted, the population's age range, or other contextual details. This information helps the audience understand how generalizable the results are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The details provided in Chapter \@ref(c02-overview-surveys) about the survey process should be shared with the audience when presenting the results. When using publicly-available data, like the examples in this book, we can often link to the methodology report in our final output. We should also provide high-level information for the audience to quickly grasp the context around the findings. For example, we can mention when and where the study was conducted, the population's age range, or other contextual details. This information helps the audience understand how generalizable the results are.
```

First, we can highlight important data points in a sentence using plain language. For example, if we were looking at election polling data conducted before an election, we could say something like:  

> As of [DATE], an estimated XX% of registered U.S. voters say they will vote for [CANDIDATE NAME] for president in the [YEAR] general election.

This sentence provides key pieces of information in a straightforward way:

 1. **[DATE]**: Given that polling data is time-specific, providing the date of reference lets the audience know when this data was valid.
 2. **Registered U.S. voters**: This tells the audience who we surveyed, letting them know the target population.
 3. **XX%**: This part provides the estimated percentage of people voting for a specific candidate for a specific office.
 4. **[YEAR] general election**: As with the bullet above, adding this gives more context about the election type and year. The estimate would take on a different meaning if we changed it to a *primary* election instead of a *general* election.
 

> We also included the word "estimated." When presenting aggregate survey results, we have errors around each estimate. We want to convey this uncertainty rather than talk in absolutes. Words like "estimated," "on average," or "around" can help our communication to the audience. Instead of saying 'XX%,' we can say 'XX% (+/- Y%)' to show the margin of error. Confidence intervals can also be incorporated into the text to assist readers.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also included the word "estimated." When presenting aggregate survey results, we have errors around each estimate. We want to convey this uncertainty rather than talk in absolutes. Words like "estimated," "on average," or "around" can help communicate this uncertainty to the audience. Instead of saying 'XX%,' we can also say 'XX% (+/- Y%)' to show the margin of error. Confidence intervals can also be incorporated into the text to assist readers.  
```

> Second, providing context and discussing the *meaning* behind a point can help the audience glean some insight into why the data is important. For example, when comparing two points, it can be helpful to highlight if there are statistically significant differences and explain the impact and relevance of this information. This is where we, as analysts, should to do our best to be mindful of biases and present the facts logically. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, providing context and discussing the *meaning* behind a point estimate can help the audience glean some insight into why the data is important. For example, when comparing two values, it can be helpful to highlight if there are statistically significant differences and explain the impact and relevance of this information. This is where we, as analysts, should to do our best to be mindful of biases and present the facts logically. 
```

Keep in mind how we discuss these findings can greatly influence how the audience interprets them. If we include speculation, using phrases like "the authors speculate" or "these findings may indicate" relays the uncertainty around the notion while still lending a plausible solution. Additionally, we can present alternative viewpoints or competing discussion points to explain the uncertainty in the results.

## Visualizing data

Although discussing key findings in the text is important, presenting large amounts of data is often more digestible for the audience in tables or visualizations. Effectively combining text, tables, and graphs can be powerful in communicating results. This section provides examples of using the {gt}, {gtsummary}, and {ggplot2} packages to enhance the dissemination of results.

### Tables

> Tables are a great way to provide a large amount of data when individual data points need to be examined. However, it is important to present tables in a reader-friendly format. Numbers should align, rows and columns should be easy to follow, and the table size should not compromise readability. Using key visualization techniques, we can create tables that are informative and nice to look at. Many packages create easy-to-read tables (e.g., {kable} \+ {kableExtra}, {gt}, {gtsummary}, {DT}, {formattable}, {flextable}, {reactable}). While we fill focus on {gt} here, we encourage learning about others as they may have additional helpful features. We appreciate the flexibility, pipability, and numerous extensions of the {gt} package. Please note, at this time, {gtsummary} needs additional features to be widely used for survey analysis, particularly due to its lack of ability to work with replicate designs. We provide one example using {gtsummary} and hope it evolves into a more comprehensive tool over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tables are a great way to provide a large amount of data when individual data points need to be examined. However, it is important to present tables in a reader-friendly format. Numbers should align, rows and columns should be easy to follow, and the table size should not compromise readability. Using key visualization techniques, we can create tables that are informative and nice to look at. Many packages create easy-to-read tables (e.g., {kable} \+ {kableExtra}, {gt}, {gtsummary}, {DT}, {formattable}, {flextable}, {reactable}). While we will focus on {gt} here, we encourage learning about others as they may have additional helpful features. We appreciate the flexibility, ability to use pipes (e.g., `%>%`), and numerous extensions of the {gt} package. Please note, at this time, {gtsummary} needs additional features to be widely used for survey analysis, particularly due to its lack of ability to work with replicate designs. We provide one example using {gtsummary} and hope it evolves into a more comprehensive tool over time.
```

trust_gov
```

> The default output generated by R may work for initial viewing inside RStudio or when creating basic output in an R Markdown or Quarto document. However, when presenting these results in other publications, such as the print version of this book or for more formal dissemination, modifying the display can improve our reader's experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default output generated by R may work for initial viewing inside RStudio or when creating basic output in an R Markdown or Quarto document. However, when presenting these results in other publications, such as the print version of this book or with other formal dissemination modes, modifying the display can improve our reader's experience. 
```

Looking at the output from `trust_gov`, a couple of improvements are obvious: (1) switching to percentages instead of proportions and (2) using the variable names as column headers. The {gt} package is a good tool for implementing better labeling and creating publishable tables. Let's walk through some code as we make a few changes to improve the table's usefulness. 

> We initiate the table with the `gt()` function. Next, we use the argument `rowname_col()` to designate the `TrustGovernment` column as the labels for each row (called the table "stub"). We apply the `cols_label()` function to create informative column labels instead of variable names, and then the `tab_spanner()` function to add a label across multiple columns. In this case, we label all columns except the stub with "Trust in Government, 2020". We then format the proportions into percentages with the `fmt_percent()` function and reduce the number of decimals shown with `decimals = 1`. Finally, the `tab_caption()` function adds a table title for HTML version of the book. We can use the caption for cross-referencing in R Markdown, Quarto, and bookdown, as well as adding it to the list of tables in the book.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we initiate the table with the `gt()` function. Next, we use the argument `rowname_col()` to designate the `TrustGovernment` column as the labels for each row (called the table "stub"). We apply the `cols_label()` function to create informative column labels instead of variable names, and then the `tab_spanner()` function to add a label across multiple columns. In this case, we label all columns except the stub with "Trust in Government, 2020". We then format the proportions into percentages with the `fmt_percent()` function and reduce the number of decimals shown with `decimals = 1`. Finally, the `tab_caption()` function adds a table title for HTML version of the book. We can use the caption for cross-referencing in R Markdown, Quarto, and bookdown, as well as adding it to the list of tables in the book.
```
